#Grader's Comments

**Grade:  ?**
Submitted Attachments  
File attachment File attachment Pat_Shiu_Lab10.zip ( 7 KB; Dec 12, 2015 4:57 pm ) 

#####Additional instructor's comments about your submission
~



----------------------------------------------------
#Lab 10 : Postfix Calculator

###Introduction
Your project is to design a program to implement a calculator. The calculator will take an infix expression, convert it to a postfix expression and then evaluate it. 

You should implement the calculator in two parts:

- A Converter class that will convert the input string to postfix expression.
- A Calculator class that will evaluate the postfix expression.

Read section 3.8 in the book on the Postfix Expression Evaluator. This will contain explanations and code for taking a postfix expression and converting it into an infix expression.

Both the Converter and Calculator classes, should use one of the Stack classes from the book.

-----

####The Calculator class
The book contains two classes: PostFixEvaluator and PFixConsole. PostFixEvaluator takes a postfix expression and evaluates it. It has no main function. PFixConsole is just a main function, and it opens a console for the user to type in postfix expressions and get answers. Your calculator class should combine the functionality of both classes. You will need to make the following changes:

- The input will be an infix expression instead of a postfix expression. The prompt in PFixConsole needs to be changed.  
- the Calculator class will instantiate an object of the Converter class in order to have the infix expression converted to a postfix expression.  
- An additional operator, "^", will be added. Java has a built in exponent function: Math.pow(x, y). Use this to evaluate x^y  
- Parentheses are legal in the infix expression (Note: The parentheses are needed in the infix expression. After your Converter class' algorithm converts the expression to postfix, it will no longer have parentheses because they are not necessary in postfix expressions.)

-----

####The Converter class
The purpose of the Converter class is to take an infix expression that is generated by the user, and convert it to a postfix expression that can be evaluated using code similar to that in PostFixEvaluator. The Converter class uses a stack to accomplish this. Here is how it works:

- When the Converter class is instantiated, a String is passed representing the infix expression entered by the user. This should be saved as an instance variable.  
- The method that does all the work in the Converter class should be called toPostFix(). It will convert the infix expression to a postfix expression. The postfix expression should be a string that can be evaluated by the calculator. Each operator and operand should be separated by spaces. This is not necessarily true of the input.  
- The first thing the converter class does is tokenizes the input string into a list of tokens representing operators and operands. Parenthesis are also allowed in infix expressions, so "(" and ")" are valid tokens. Note that the user might not include spaces between tokens, so the simple tokenizer used in the Calculator class will not work.  
- Once the input is tokenized, a stack is used to convert to a postfix expression. We will go over the algorithm in recitation and post a more detailed description (with examples) on the course webpage. Here is the basic idea: Create a stack and an output string. Read all of the tokens from left to right.  
    1. Whenever you come upon an operand, append it onto the end of the output string.  
    2. Whenever you come upon an operator, look at the top of the stack to make sure the operator on the stack has a lower precedence. If it does not, pop operators out of the stack and append to output until the operator at the top of the stack is of lower precedence than the token you are reading. You can also stop if the top of the stack is an open parenthesis, or if the stack is empty. Then add the operator to the stack.  
    3. Whenever you come upon an open parenthesis, always put it on the stack.
    4. Whenever you come upon a closed parenthesis, pop out all the operators on the stack and append them to output until you find the matching parenthesis. Pop out the matching parenthesis and don't add either paren to the output (remember: postfix doesn't have parenthesis!)  
- The details and helper methods used in this class are left up to you.

-----

Sample input (input numbers will only be integers)

    3+4*5/6
    (300+23)*(43-21)/(84+7)
    (4+8)*(6-5)/((3-2)*(2+2))

Your output should show the converted postfix string and the result of the calculation. For instance, here is a sample run of the program (user input in italics):

    type your infix expression
    (4+8)*(6-5)/((3-2)*(2+2))

    converted to postfix: 4 8 + 6 5 - * 3 2 - 2 2 + * /

    answer is 3.0

__[Click here for step-by-step infix to postfix conversion examples.](http://cs.nyu.edu/courses/Fall12/CSCI-GA.1133-002/notes/InfixToPostfixExamples.pdf)__
